I love that you guys
are having conversation.
I mean, that's part of a Sunday morning is
where we get the opportunity to connect.
And that's why as you continue to see
each and every week, we like giving that
space of about five or so minutes to hang
out, talk, catch up and my encouragements
to, to come early and do that, do that
during the worship time that we have,
uh, space for, and then hang out after.
Right.
And then if you don't get enough,
then which you, you probably don't
then come to an inspire group.
It's the same exact.
But it's a lot of times we'll, we'll, you
know, get to hang out in a comfortable
chair as well in the midst of that.
But so today we are, um, having a
communion service and, you know, we
do, we, we do this about, you know,
every so often we'll have a service
that we call a communion service, um,
and we've done them different ways.
And this one.
Um, we have invited the, the older
kids into, to participate in this.
Um, and, and to talk about what
is communion and, and really walk
through a couple of different things.
And as I was walking through what I
feel like the Lord was leading us to
do when it came to communion is it
was kind of a little bit different
than the way we, we usually do it.
And I would say the story doesn't
change, but how we walk through
it does and how we see it.
And so I would say this in the
midst of preparing for today, I saw,
uh, communion in a different way.
Not that it's changed.
But I would just say this,
the Lord brought something
new and you guys know this.
Like sometimes you read something
one day and like six months later,
you read it again and you get
something different out of it.
I mean, it's just that, that type of
feel that I, I would say with this today.
And so if you wanna know where we're
reading, we're actually reading a
lot of texts today, and I'm gonna
invite you guys to participate in
helping us read that today, but
we're gonna be in Luke chapter 20.
Um, and we're gonna start
with verses 14 through 20.
Um, and here here's my challenge
to you right now, because we're
gonna have opportunity for
everybody to jump in and read.
And as you can tell, there's
not a ton of everybody.
So that may be you, and I'm not gonna
point you out, but I would love for you
to participate in helping read today.
So if you don't have a Bible with
you, it'll be up on the screen, but
if you haven't downloaded a Bible
app, I would encourage you to do.
Um, if you go out to the app store and
you search for the you version Bible
app, that's my favorite Bible app.
You download that it's very
simple to use and read.
Um, and so if you wanted to
download that today to participate
in helping read today, you can.
Um, but that's just an
encouragement for you.
Um, but.
As we look at today, this text is
really dealing with what we would
call the last supper of Jesus and his
disciples eating the last meal together.
And this is really where we get
communion from because he begins to,
to have this last supper with him.
And then later we see that, um,
Paul talks a lot about us and taking
communion or having a time of communion
to remember what the Lord did for us.
What we're remembering when it
comes to communion is remembering
what Jesus did for us, right?
He, his body was broken for us.
His blood was shed for us to forgive us
of our sins, to, to pay the price that
we deserved for our sins and to give
us salvation and hope and a new life.
Right.
And all these things.
So started thinking about this
and you guys are, I'm gonna try to
connect a couple things to our lives.
That I begin to see here to help me
process through this a little bit.
So who here has ever worked a job so hard
that when you got home, you collapsed,
you were just exhausted anybody.
I mean, you were just worn out.
At some aspect, some point, if you felt
that way, you know, from a day of hard
work, you would almost say that you
felt like your body was broken, right?
Like you were just done, you
were completely worn out.
See, I remember back when I was in
Oklahoma for the last couple of years
that I was there in the fall and the early
spring on my off day, because I've served
on staff at a church on my off day on
Fridays, I would actually go, um, and help
with landscaping from about I'd wake up
about four 30, get there about five, five.
We would start from then we would work it
all day long in the heat mowing and moving
mulch and rocks and things like that.
And I would come home exhausted, worn
out, just so you know, the difference
between being a pastor and a landscaper
for a day, it's harder to be a landscaper.
I think physically, maybe not
mentally, but physically it is.
And so I would come home exhausted
and I usually, what would happen is
Brit would just give me time to rest.
She would tell the kids
don't mess with your.
He's worked hard all day.
Well, lemme tell you the reason
why I worked hard on those days
is as, as a pastor, you know,
we just needed some extra money.
And a lot of times it was around Christmas
because we needed Christmas gifts.
We needed, we wanted
Christmas gifts for kids.
And a lot of times it was around spring
because everybody knows around spring.
It seems like everything comes up
needing new clothes and you name it.
Right.
Um, and so it was an opportunity
for me, if you think about it,
that my body was broken or worn out
for the sake of my kid's benefit.
Usually what Brittney would say.
A lot of times, whenever we would buy
Christmas gifts or we would be able to
get to do activities because of that
hard work that I would do, she would
say, Hey, make sure you tell your dad,
thank you for sacrificing his time and
effort for what we're getting to do.
And so our kids would do that.
They would say, thanks dad so much.
But you know, especially with those
Christmas gifts, a couple months
later, they stopped playing with them.
They become old and, and they
really begin to lose value to them.
They begin to not appreciate them as much.
And it seems like all
they want is something.
So now let's bring this story into
really where we wanna hang out, right?
I'm not comparing my life to Christ,
but Christ's body was broken for us.
You know, it says that his body
was broken, that he, his blood
was, uh, poured out for us.
And his sacrifice is something that
at the moment of salvation, when we
give our lives to Christ, when we
recognize what Christ has done for us,
we celebrate and we give thanks to.
But it seems like that as time goes on,
we begin to forget what God has given us.
We begin to take it for granted
and we don't appreciate it.
So when you look at days like today,
rich, I would hope every single
Sunday that we come together, we
remember what Christ did for us.
But days like today are
days for us to stop.
And go back and remember what Christ
did, the sacrifice that he paid
so that we could experience a hope
that we could experience a life that
we could experience salvation and
forgiveness of sins and all these things.
So we take days like today to
remember so that we don't take for
granted what Christ did for us.
And again, that's why I say my
sacrifice was minimal compared
to Christ, but I see the connect.
In this, right.
When we forget to remember what
Christ said for us, we become
ungrateful and we complain.
So maybe I'm just, just so you know that
maybe this isn't you praise God, but
me, I become ungrateful and complain.
I begin to ask this question, God,
what did you do for me lately?
When God did enough at salvation,
when he did enough on the cross,
see we take for granted all the
gifts, all the things and the, the
abilities that God has given us, right?
A relationship with God access.
Uh, hope and forgiveness and peace.
We take all these things for granted
and we don't recognize what we have
and the value we have in Christ.
And so in the end, when we don't
remember what Christ has done for us,
we begin to seek other things to fill
the void that we have in our lives.
Like my kids, they want more,
they want something different.
It's not good.
It's old.
So for me, at times in my
relationship, and again, I don't know
if I'm hanging out there with you.
I want something more and it seems
like God hasn't given me enough.
So what do I.
I begin to try to find other
things to fill that void.
So for you, it may be different, but
for some, we begin to fill that thing
with other things, other activities,
other relationships, you know, for
some, it could get to the point
where we are choosing substance from
alcohol to food, to social media.
Things that consume us and feel us that
think that it fulfills what we believe
that God has, you know, given us.
And, and really what we
find is, is it is deflating.
It is not fulfilling because what we
realize, the only thing that is going
to bring that fulfillment is remembering
what Christ did for us, that he's given
us a hope that he's given us faith.
He's given us peace.
He's given us comfort and he's
given us somebody who takes the
cares that I have in my life and
begins to take those upon himself.
And to give me something back
that is so much better, right?
My hope today, as we jump into this
text, and as we continue to read
through scripture today is that we truly
remember what Christ did for us, right?
The sacrifice that he made and that we
start choosing Christ, we chart choosing
every day to remember what he's done for.
And again, so that we can leave
outta here with a renewed excitement
about our relationship with Christ.
So let's jump into this text, Luke
chapter 22 versus 14 through 22 throw.
So I'll read this.
Here's what it says.
It says when the hour came, he's
speaking of Jesus reclined at the
table and the apostles with him.
And then he said to them, I have ly
desired to eat this passive meal with.
Before I suffer.
Bri tell you I will not eat it again until
it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And then he took the cup and after
giving, thanks, he said, take this
and share it among yourselves.
Bri, tell you from now on, I will not
drink of the fruit of the vine until
the kingdom of God comes and he took
the bread and he gave thanks and he
broke it and he gave it to them and
said, this is my body, which is given
to you do this in remembrance of me.
And so also in the same way, he took the.
After supper.
He said, this cup is the new covenant in
my blood, which is poured out for you.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We pray Lord today that you're new, that
your word is new to our hearts and our
ears and our minds today, Lord that we
leave outta here, remembering what you did
for us, Lord, that we take this with this
into our days and when to our weeks ahead.
And then we allow that to fulfill us that,
to guide us and that to direct our life's.
To know you more and to help
others know you more as well.
And so we pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So the first thing I wanna start with,
which I think actually speaks to this
text and what Jesus is talking about, it
says when the hour came, they reclined
at the table and the apostles were
with them and they were, it says that
they were, he said he had fervently
desired to eat this Passover with him.
So before we can even
move on, we have to talk.
One, what is the Passover?
Where did communion come from?
And communion actually came from this
last supper that they had together.
See, Jesus begins to describe, they were
celebrating over what the Passover was.
And so just, just by raise of hands, how
many y'all know what the Passover is.
Okay, good.
So majority of us know what the
Passover is, but I wanna walk
through it again because I don't
wanna miss what the first Passover
is and how he's talking about now.
The new.
uh, Passover or the new covenant has come.
So the old Passover feast
was when the people of Israel
were slaved enslaved in Egypt.
Right.
And all these plagues happened.
Until finally the last one, which
is where God was going to kill every
one of the firstborn children in
Pharaoh's home and all of Egypt's home.
But in order for the Israelites to, to
not have that happen to them, God asked
them through Moses, obviously, right.
To take a unblemished lamb and to
sacrifice that layman, to put the
blood above the doorpost and to
eat a meal together of that lamb.
Right.
And in that process that Lamb's blood
being sacrifice would save them from
what would happen to all the Egyptians
would save them to be able to get
them out of slavery and to be able to
experience the promised land one day.
And that's exactly what happened.
God passed over the sins of Israel
and he began to pour out punishment
on those who had sinned against him.
See, that was a major event in their life.
They begin to celebrate year after
year, because it was so impactful.
See, when there's things like
that, that happen in your life, we
should celebrate them consistently.
And the Israelites model that even up
to the day here, that Jesus is modeling
that same thing that they're going in
and they're having the, the last supper
together they're celebrating right.
This Passover mill.
But as he's beginning to describe
here, and I begin to think about.
as, as just a, a as, as a, you know,
United States, we celebrate July 4th.
We don't miss it.
We blow off fireworks because
we celebrate our independence.
Right.
That's something logical.
And that's where I get to saying,
like, where did communion come from?
Why did the pass mill happen is because
when major things happen in our life,
we should take time to celebrate them.
This is why as a church, we
take a complete Sunday and
we say, Hey, let's talk.
Communion.
Let's talk about what Christ did for us.
Let's celebrate let's thank him.
Let's praise him for
what he's done for us.
So now we see this transition here.
When Jesus came to earth and lived a
perfect life and was sacrificed on the
cross, he became our Passover lamb.
See the old Passover was replaced
with the new one where Jesus.
Came because we could not save
our, save ourselves from our sins.
We could not save ourselves from being
punished for our lives that we've lived.
And again, I, I really want you to think
through this guys I've been there before.
We're good people, as we think,
but all of us have sinned and
fallen short of God's glory.
There's, there's at least something
in your life that you've fallen
short at one point in your life.
And if you.
That means that you're a sinner
you've fallen short, but God's not
saying you're a hor horrible person.
What God is saying is that there's no
way that you can save yourself from an
eternity, separated from him, an eternal
punishment for that sin, but God can,
and God did through sin his son, Jesus,
to die for us to be sacrificed for us.
And he begins to describe this in this
text, and we're gonna walk through it
in just a minute, but those of us who
have accepted Jesus and his payment
for our sins, Jesus has taken place.
Our place, right?
So when God judges the world,
he will pass over our sins.
And he, as he judges the whole world,
those who have not accepted Christ, he
will not pass over their sins and they
will be held accountable for theirs.
Is that narrow minded?
I actually don't believe it is.
I, I would say this.
If, if somebody had a, a ship
wreck and somebody threw out a
life rat for every single person.
Half of 'em decided not
to choose the life raft.
Was it their fall fault or the person
thrown out the raft, it was their choice.
And that would be horrible.
Why wouldn't they choose the life raft?
Because sometimes what we think with the
life raft is the life raft is narrow.
The life raft is not better
than just no raft at all.
But it's because the enemy
likes to still kill and destroy.
He likes to deceive us to think that a
relationship with Christ and the salvation
that the Lord gives us is not good enough.
They wanted a boat, not a life raft.
And if he can't give me a boat,
then I don't want any of it.
They didn't realize that the life
raft would've been pulled back in
into a glorious kingdom in eternity
with God forever, where there would
be no tears, no pain, no crying.
Like that's the things that
a lot of times we miss.
So when we look at this, right,
those who have given their lives to.
God has, is, and will continue to pass
over our sin and not judge us for it.
He judged Christ for that.
So again, why do we celebrate communion?
Because it, this is a major event for us.
They have given our lives to Christ.
It's a major event for the world, knowing
that someone has taken their place,
Jesus has taken their place so that they
wouldn't be, um, judged for their sin.
So we should celebrate this.
So every single time we come
together, we celebrate this, but we
take days like this to celebrate.
So let's walk through this.
and then we'll, we'll continue on here.
So in verse 15, I'm just
gonna kind of highlight.
I'm not gonna walk through completely,
but I'm gonna highlight, we see in
verse 15 where he says this, then
he said to them, speaking to the
disciples, I have fervently desired to
eat this pass with you before I suffer.
Let me just challenge you to
think through text this way.
When you study it, ask a lot of questions.
And the first question I asked
as I read over this is how
could Jesus fervently desire?
To go to the last meal he
would ever eat before he died.
Wouldn't you wanna avoid that?
But let me tell you what I saw in this
and why Jesus went to this last meal.
Number one, Jesus loved his disciples.
He loved his disciples so much.
He wanted to see them one more time.
He wanted to give them one more
example of what he was gonna do.
Through this last supper, he wanted
to show his love and compassion.
If we remember we've studied this
before he washed his disciples
feet, that night he wanted to
spend every last second with him.
So God through Jesus loved
his disciples so much.
He went to this last supper.
Number two, Jesus knew that this
mill would get him one step closer to
fulfilling his purpose, to bring hope
salvation, forgiveness to the world.
Challenge to you on this.
Sometimes we avoid pain, even though we
know that pain can lead to somebody else's
hope, love, salvation, and forgiveness.
Jesus chose to head towards right,
this pain, this, this suffering, not
only for his disciples, but for us.
And so this meal was part of the process.
So he celebrated, even though this pain
he was going through was so horrible.
He could look past it to see the.
So then we see here, I'm just gonna
go ahead and jump to verse 19.
And it says, and he took the bread and
he gave thanks and he broke it and he
said to them, this is my body, which is
given to you do this in remembrance of me.
So this symbol of the bread, right?
When we talk about the bread and the wine.
It is all about a symbol.
It's something to give us tangible
about what Christ has done for us.
Right?
And so when he broke this bread, it
was a visual representation of his
body, eventually breaking for his
disciples and being broken for us.
And he says whenever they were to eat
it, they were to do this in remembrance
of the sacrifice he was about to make.
See Jesus continually told us
disciples, this was gonna happen.
And most of them would not believe it.
And many, if you even look at the text
that, that this was hidden from them
fully until he actually gave his life
for Christ before it was revealed.
But for us, we have a different picture.
We look at it, we know that the
bread represents what Christ did
for us, but I want to challenge
us to look at one thing here.
Whenever he says for us in this,
he says, and he took the bread and
he gave thanks and he broke it.
And he said to them, do
this in remembrance of.
I started challenging myself
to look at this differently.
The, in the breaking of our body, in the
brokenness of our walk and our lives,
the, we are to do that in remembrance
of what Christ did see if Christ was
willing to go to a last supper, knowing
that was gonna be his last meal and
that his body was gonna be broken.
Then he was doing it for the
greater good of all the world
so that they could experience a
hope, a salvation, how much more.
Can we celebrate communion, remembering
what Christ said for us by allowing
our lives at times, to be broken, to
allow sometimes the situations we're
in to be difficult, not maybe for
our benefit, because we've already
experienced Christ, but for the benefit
of others, I don't know about you.
That gives me a little bit of comfort
because I know whenever I go through
pain, it's for a greater benefit,
but sometimes I want to choose.
No pain.
And again, I'm always a
great physical reference.
When I think about working out, everybody
wants to be fit, but nobody wants to
go through the pain of getting fit.
Okay.
I'll just tell you this.
If I was to probably pull you guys,
everybody would say, I want to
see Christ magnified in my life.
I wanna be the greatest
Christ follower ever.
I wanna see people come
to faith in Christ.
I wanna see this city transformed.
You'd be like, amen.
What if it involved pain?
Maybe not see Jesus is
challenging us today.
He was challenged to disciples today.
And in this text, us that at times
to truly celebrate Christ that we may
have to be broken in the midst of it.
That's tough to hear, but Christ
set a great example for us because
he had his eyes on the prize.
He had his eyes on God.
He had his eyes and his heart.
Here's the cool part guys on the
people who were gonna receive that.
I know that there are several people
that have given their lives for us
in this world to have a free country.
I'm not trying to be political
here, but what I'm trying to be
is they saw the bigger picture.
They saw the bigger picture that in
sacrificing their life, that there
would be some greater good of it.
Jesus is on a bigger scale, but even
for us as Christ followers, we continue
to live our faith out for the greater.
Of knowing God is doing
something on the other side.
So I believe that part of
celebrating communion is
remembering that, remembering that.
So then we see in verse 20 here, it
says in the same way, he also took the
cup and after supper, he said this,
the cup is the new covenant in my
blood, which is poured out for you.
He says this new covenant, right?
This new covenant means that the
old covenant law was passing away or
fulfilled by the new one coming in.
Right?
The new man, new of him paying for our
sins, see the old covenant required
following laws to a T doing all these
works, but the new covenant required
only sacrificing himself in our place.
And he did that.
So it is done.
It is accomplished.
And so I wanna give you an
example and I hope it lands here.
But I want you to think about this.
How many of y'all in
here have had a birthday?
Hey, great.
All of us can raise our hand.
And if you didn't raise your hand, you
don't know yet, but every one of you
have been born and you've had a birthday.
Here's the thing that I want you to
think about when you think about this
every year we celebrate that birthday.
At least I think most of us probably do.
We get a cake and we say, Hey,
your day's special and we're
celebrating, but we're only born once.
We're only born once.
See when Christ died on the
cross, it was finished when
we were born, it was finished.
And every year after that, we
celebrate what was finished.
We celebrate what was, what
has happened, the new life.
And, and, and I know you guys, like I
get the best cake in the world, or really
it's Browning cookie brownies, right?
It's cookie brown.
That's the best cake in the world of me.
That's cookie brownies.
I get the best ice cream
and, and the best family.
And, and I celebrate this.
Because I was born and I
get to experience life guys.
Communion is not just about when we take
time later during, during, uh, invitation
to, to drink the cup and take the bread.
Communion is remembering
that we were born again.
Because of Jesus Christ that it was
finished on the cross that I don't
have to work any harder to gain
that salvation that I receive it
because of what Christ did and that
now I get to live and experience it.
And every single time that I
remember what Christ did for me, I am
celebrating my new spiritual birth.
See, I, I like to visually connect that
because it's easy for us to say, yeah, we
celebrate our birthdays, but why should
we celebrate what Christ did for us?
Because it was an impactful
moment in our lives.
And when we do, we live differently.
When I forget what Christ did
for me, I live selfishly, but I
remember what Christ did for me.
All the things he did, man.
I just, I wanna be more like him.
I wanna praise him.
I wanna thank him.
I wanna help other more,
more, more people know him.
Sometimes it's tough.
Sometimes our bodies have to be
broken, but my challenge to you is
maybe you haven't experienced what
it means to give your life to Christ
and to, to walk in that new birth.
And, and you can.
We'll talk about how you can give
your life to Christ at the end
of today and, and how you can
experience that new, spiritual birth.
And you begin to celebrate every
single day on what Christ did for you.
But one of the things I want
to do, I wanna finish up today
by reading a lot of scripture.
Here's what I am reminded that the word of
God, when is read, does not return void.
When it is read, God is going
to do something through it.
So I thought it would be great as a.
To read through Jesus, going to the cross
and dying for our sins and gonna see all
the things that he went through for you.
And my challenge is all the things that
he did, not only for you, but everyone
in your influence where you work, where
you live, where your kids hang out.
Christ died for them too.
And so I'm hoping I'm not the
only one that's gonna read today.
So I want you to do this, get out
your phones, get out your Bibles,
read it off the screen up here.
But what we're gonna do is we're gonna
read starting in verse 39 of chapter 22.
And I'm just gonna ask
for different sections.
Like, Hey, I need somebody to
read this far and I'm gonna
ask somebody to read this far.
I'm gonna ask somebody to read this far.
And, and here's what we're gonna do.
We're we're gonna pass the
mic around so we can hear.
Don't be afraid of the mic.
And, uh, I don't know
where it's is it up here?
Yeah, we're here.
Okay.
So we're gonna pass around the mic.
I'm gonna give you sections to
read and anybody can read again.
You can read off the screen and
there's a lot of text to read.
So again, don't leave it to anybody.
So who wants to read the first text?
It's gonna be verses 39 through 46.
Yep.
Awesome.
Jesus went out as usual to the
Mount of olives and his disciples
followed him on reaching the place.
He said to them, pray that you
will not fall into temptation.
He withdrew about a stone throw beyond
them N down and prayed father, if you
are willing, take this cup from me
yet, not my will, but yours be done.
An angel from heaven appeared
to him and strengthen.
Being in anguish, he prayed more
earnestly and his sweat was like
drops of blood falling to the ground.
Uh, yeah, go through 46.
Okay.
When he rose from prayer and went
back to the disciples, he found
them asleep, exhausted from sorrow.
Why are you sleeping?
He asked them get up and pray so
that you will not fall into tempt.
Thank you so much.
All right, somebody's gonna
read 57 through 47 through 53.
Okay.
while he was still speaking,
suddenly a mob came and one of the
12 named Judas was leading them.
He came near Jesus to kiss him, but
Jesus said to him, Judas, are you
betraying the son of man with a.
When those around him saw that
he was what was going to happen.
They asked Lord, shall we
strike with a, with a sword.
Then one of them struck the high priest
servant and cut off his right ear.
But Jesus responded no more
of this and touching his ear.
He healed him.
Then Jesus said to the chief
priests, temple police and
the elders who came for him.
Have you come out with swords and clubs
as if I were a criminal every day,
while I was with you in the temple.
You never laid a hand on me,
but this is your hour and
the dominion of the darkness.
Okay.
So 54 through 62.
Oh.
They seized him, led him away and
brought him into the high priest's house.
Meanwhile, Peter was
following at a distance.
They lit a fire in the middle of
the courtyard and sat down together.
And Peter sat among them.
When a servant saw him sitting in
the light and looked closely at him.
She said, this man was with him
too, but he denied it woman.
I don't know.
After a little while someone else saw him
and said, you're one of them too, man.
I am not.
Peter said about an hour later.
Another kept insisting this
man was certainly with him
since he's also a Galilean.
But Peter said, man, I don't know
what you're talking about immediately.
While he was still speaking
a rooster Crow, then the Lord
turned and looked at Peter.
So Peter remembered the word of the.
How he said to him before the rooster
crows today, you will deny me three times.
And he went outside and wept bitterly.
Okay.
Can somebody else read 63 through 71?
Oh.
Orville's  gonna read it.
All right.
The men who were holding Jesus
started mocking and beating
him after blindfolding him.
They kept asking prophesy.
Who was it that hit you?
And they were saying
many other OUS things to.
When daylight came, the elders of
the people, both the chief priests
and the scribes convened and brought
him before they were Sanhedrin.
They said, if you are the Messiah,
tell us, but he said to them, if I
do tell you, you will not believe.
And if I ask you, you will not answer.
But from now on, the son of
man will be seated at the
right hand of the power of God.
They all asked, are you
then the son of God?
And he said to them, you say that I am.
Why do you need any more testimony?
They said since we've heard
it ourselves from his mouth.
All right.
We're in chapter 23 now.
So verse one through five,
who wants to read that?
It's gonna read two, if they want
Joe.
Awesome.
Then their whole assembly
rose up and brought him before
pilot that began to accuse him.
We found this man misleading our
nation opposing payment of taxes
to Caesar and saying that he
himself is the Messiah a king.
So pilot asked him, are
you the king of the Jews?
He asked him, you say, so pilot then
told the chief priests and the crowds.
I find no grounds for charging
this man, but they kept insisting.
He stirs up the people teaching
throughout all Judea and Galilee,
where he started even to hear.
So next person's gonna
read verses 6 through 12.
Who wants to read that?
Oh, over here.
Got it Joe.
When pilot heard this, he asked
whether the man was a Galilean and
then he learned, he belonged to
herrod's ... Herrod's jurisdiction.
He sent him over to her who was himself
in Jerusalem at the time when her
saw Jesus, he was very glad for, he
had long desire to see him because
he had heard about him and he was
hoping to see some sign done by him.
So he questioned him at
some length, but he made no.
The chief priest inscribe stood
by vehemently accusing him and
hared with his soldiers, treated
him with contempt and mocked him.
Then arraying him in splinted clothing.
He sent him back to pilot and har and
pilot became friends with each other
that very day for before this, they
had been at enate with one another.
Okay.
The next one is 13 through 25.
Anybody else wanna read?
Amanda
Pilate called together the chief priest,
the leaders, and the people and said
to them, you have brought me this
man as one who misleads the people.
But in fact, after examining him
in your presence, I have found no
grounds to charge this man with the
things you accuse him of neither his
herd, because he sent him back to us.
Clearly he has done nothing to deserve.
Therefore, I will have him
whipped and then release him.
Then they all cried out together.
Take this man away, release Barass to us.
He had been thrown into prison for
a rebellion that had taken place
in the city and for murder, wanting
to release Jesus pilot, addressed
them again, but they kept shouting
crucify, crucify him a third time.
He said to them, why, what
is this man done wrong?
I have found no grounds in
him for the death penalty.
Therefore I will have him whipped and
then release him, but they kept up the
pressure demanding with loud voices that
he'd be crucified and their voices won.
So pilot decided to grant their demand
and release the one who they were
asking for who had been thrown into
prison for rebellion and for murder,
but he handed Jesus over to their will.
26 through 31.
As the soldiers led them away.
They seized Simon from Cyrene
who was on his way in from the
country and put a cross on him
and made him carry behind Jesus.
A large number of people
followed him, including women who
mourned and, and wailed for him.
And Jesus turned said to them, daughters
of Jerusalem do not wait for me.
We for yourselves and for your
children for the time will come.
When you will say blessed are the
childless women and the wombs that
never bore and the blessed, never nurse,
then they will say to the mountains,
fallen us and the Hills cover us.
Or if people do these things,
when the trees are green, what
will happen when it is dry.
Somebody can do 32 through 43.
We're almost done.
Okay.
Oh, back over here.
Two others, criminals were also
led away to be executed with him.
When they arrived at the place called
the skull, they crucified him there
along with the criminals one on the
right and one on the left, then Jesus
said, father, forgive them because
they do not know what they're.
They divided his clothes and cast lots.
The people stood watching and
even the leaders were scoffing.
He saved others.
Let him save himself.
If this is God's Messiah, the, the
chosen one, the soldiers also mocked him.
They came offering him sour wine
and said, if you are the king
of the Jews, save yourself and
inscription above was above him.
This is the king of the Jews.
Then one of the criminals hanging
there began to yell insults at.
Aren't you, the Messiah save yourself and
us, but the other answered rebuking him.
Don't you even fear God, since you are
undergoing the same punishment, we are
punished justly because we're getting back
what we deserve for the things we did.
But this man has done nothing wrong.
Then he said, Jesus, remember me
when you come into your kingdom.
And he said to him, truly, I tell you.
Today you'll be with me in paradise.
Awesome.
44 through 49 it's sorry.
It was now about noon and darkness
came over the whole land until D into
the afternoon for the sun stopped
shining and the curtain of the temple
was torn in two Jesus called out with
loud voice father unto your hands.
I commit my.
When he has said this, he breathed
his last, the Centurion seen what
had happened, praised God and said,
surely this is was a righteous man.
When all the people who had
gathered to the witness, this
site saw what took place.
They beat their breast and went away.
But all those who knew him,
including the women who had followed
him from Galilee, stood at a
distance, watching these things.
And somebody for the
last one 50 through 56.
Oh, Brit's gonna read
Now there was a good and
righteous man named Joseph.
He was a member of the Jewish high.
Jewish high council, but he had not
agreed with the decision and actions
of the other religious leaders.
He was from the town of Aramethea
in Judah, and he was waiting
for the kingdom of God to come.
He went to Pilate and
asked for Jesus' body.
Then he took the body down from the
cross and wrapped it in a long sheet
of linen cloth and laid it in a new
tomb that had been carved out of rock.
This was done late on Friday afternoon.
The day of preparation as the Sabbath
was about to begin as his body was taken
away, the women from Galilee followed and
saw the tomb where his body was placed.
Then they went home and prepared spices
and ointments to anoint his body.
But by the time they were
finished, the Sabbath had begun.
So they rested as required by the law.
You can just turn that off
and set it right there.
If you want.
So obviously we can continue reading
on about the resurrection, but today
talking about Jesus dying on the cross,
I want to focus more on there, but I
I'm hoping that you did what I did.
Just listening to this journey to the
cross and all the things that happened.
And I, I just wrote down a few things.
Number one, Jesus, praying in
the garden was one of the most
desperate prayers you'll ever see.
Jesus pray.
That was the, the human element
of Jesus in that moment.
Just reminded me how broken he was for us.
It says that he sweat, you know,
drops of blood, or some would say
that he was crying drops of blood.
And I don't know how that even PO
is possible, but that how is how
much anguish he was going through.
He even needed angels to minister, to
him to strengthen him as he got up.
Then we begin to realize that slowly,
this group of people that had followed
him, that he had this last supper
with begin to betray him first.
It was Juda.
Then again, if you read in other accounts
of the gospel, you'll see the rest of
'em fled and then Peter hung around for a
while, but then he rejected Jesus as well.
And, and so all these people left him
and one things you see about Jesus
is he was so humble in the process.
He just received the punishment.
Again, if you read the other
gospel accounts, you'll see
that Jesus makes this statement.
He says, I could call down Allegion
of angels to stop this process,
but I refused to use that power.
That's the power he had.
He refused to use that power to die in our
place because we deserve that punishment.
They marked him, they beat him, right.
They hung him on this
cross and he died for us.
He was broken for us.
He bled for us.
He did all that because
he loved us so much.
He loved our city so much.
He loved every person you're
in connection with so much.
He loved the world so much.
God so loved the world that he gave
us one and only son that who so should
believe in him shall have eternal life.
See, Jesus did that.
And today we take time to remember that.
So based on all that he did, I think
it's good that we have communion Sundays.
I think it's good to be reminded,
not just when we have communion
Sundays, but every day of this.
And so again, my hope is that all of us
walk outta here with the sense to say,
you know, every day that I have complete
access to God, let me go to God and
thank him for what he did for me, that we
don't just wait for a communion Sunday,
but that we use every day to do that.
I'm asking God to help me with that as.
For us to remember right.
To not take it for granted
what God has done for us.
So during an invitation, we're
getting ready to go into invitation.
I got a couple things that I want you
guys to consider and pray through.
And then I'm gonna talk through how
we're gonna take communion today.
But what I would love to do for everybody
to be prepared for communion today,
I just want you to close your eyes.
I want you to bow your heads.
I wanna just share a couple things.
That's on my heart that I
want you to think through.
So you're not distracted.
I just I'm asking you to do.
So the first thing that I really
want to ask this question, because
this is where I really want
you to be honest with yourself.
Again, nobody's looking around with this.
Have you ever taken for granted
all that Jesus has done for you?
If you have raise your hand, if you've
ever taken for granted, all that Jesus
has done for you, raise your hand.
See, I know you're not looking
around, but we're all the same.
We've all done it.
Here's here's another question.
Maybe after today.
And again, I, I am impacted, I'm
gonna raise my hand for this one.
If you have ever wanted to spend more
time remembering what Christ has done for
you, that, that you wanna be better at it.
And you wanna leave outta here.
Remembering.
I want you to raise your
hand in a commitment that you
want to remember Christ more.
If you are just like me, where you
want to spend more time remembering
what Christ did for you and
to, to allow that to guide you.
I want you to raise your
hand and commitment to that.
So you think all of us had that.
But here's the last group
that I really wanna speak to.
And this is the challenge
that I have for you.
The reason I want you to just pray
and seek the Lord in this moment is if
you've never given your life to Christ.
If, if you couldn't raise your hand on
the first one, because you've never really
considered what Christ has done for you.
If you couldn't raise your hand on the
second one, because why would you even
celebrate what Christ has done for you?
If you've never given your life to Christ?
Today is a day that you have heard the
gospel, the truth that Jesus so loved.
You, you sitting there in your seat,
that he's in his son, Jesus, to die
in your place so that you can receive
salvation so that you can receive
a new hope and a new life and a new
covenant walk with Jesus and with God.
So if you've never given your life
to Christ today, here's my challenge.
That you do not let today
pass by before you do that.
So if you would like to give your life
to Christ, you, nobody looking around.
I want you to raise your hand.
I want you to raise your hand and
commitment that today is the day that you
choose to give your life to Christ that
you want to give your life to Christ.
Here's my challenge.
If that's you today sitting in that chair
and you're struggling to raise your.
I wanna share with you how you
can give your life to Christ.
It's not about how good you are.
It's not about saying all the
right things, but it's truly
about believing who Jesus is.
And so if that's you today, and again,
you didn't wanna raise your hand, but
you're still processing through that.
I wanna give you what God tells
us in the word of what it means
to give our lives to Christ.
So if that's you today, if you
wanted to give your life to Christ,
you would say something like this.
Jesus, I give my life to you.
It's that simple.
You would say, Jesus, forgive me of my
sins and thank you for dying in my place.
Thank you for saving me.
See, it's not the words, but it's the
heart behind those words that saves
you, that you accept what Christ did for
you and that you give your life to him.
And so if you want to talk more about
that, if you wanna know what it's
like to give your life to Christ,
if you want to, that's what it takes
is to commit your life to Christ.
Here's what I know.
And I I'm, I'm gonna end and
we're gonna go into invitation.
Do you know that angels
celebrating heaven when we do this?
Sometimes it's so scary, but
angels celebrating heaven
over one sin who repents.
And I'll just tell you today, even though
I'll give my life to Christ that I'm
a sinner today, repenting of sometimes
not following through with what God's
called me to follow through with.
So I know that angels is
celebrating over my repent.
But I pray if you, haven't given your
life to Christ that if you choose
today that you know that God is
celebrating in heaven for that decision.
So during this time of invitation,
I just challenge every one of you to
take time, to ask God, to renew your
spirit and give you a daily appreciation
for what he's done and to guide you
every day to remember what he's done.
And whenever I get done praying,
Matt and Amanda are gonna be singing,
but here is what I want you to do.
Kids.
I want you to listen.
Is there's communion
over here on the table.
And we're gonna challenge you
as a family, as an individual.
If you're here to take
communion by yourself, I'm
not gonna lead you through it.
You're just gonna come up during the
time that they're playing music, grab
communion, go back to your chair.
And what I want you to do is I want
you to take communion in remembrance.
So whenever you take the bread out and
you remember of Christ's body broken for
you, that you thank the Lord for that,
you remember what he went through, the
story we read through and you take it.
Then when you get to the cup,
take that and remember the, the
blood that was shed for you.
Do that together.
Let it be a moment.
For you guys to celebrate and to
remember what Christ has done for you.
And again, you'll have time to do that
during this time of worship on your own.
Do that as a family,
do that as individuals.
And then after that, they're
gonna encourage you to stand
up and worship on our way out.
And that's how we'll conclude service.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We love you, Lord.
And today is a good day.
Lord, Lord.
I am believing right now that as we
read your word, your word will not
return void because it taught us.
It showed us everything you went through
to be forgiven Lord for us to be
forgiven of our sins, Lord, everything
you went to, to come down from
heaven, to live a perfect sinless
life and to die across in our place.
God.
I pray that if there's people in
this room that hasn't given their
lives to you, Lord that today
will be the day that they do it.
Lord, they'll come talk to me.
If they have questions about it.
Lord, I pray that if there's people
in this room, Lord, who just like me
have really forgotten to celebrate
every day, what you've done for them.
Lord made today.
Each one of us walk outta here with
a passion, with a desire, a fervent
desire to remember what you've done for.
Lord.
Thank you so much for today.
Thank you so much for this
church, for this group of people.
Lord, thank you so much for the
group of people that read God.
We, we are so thankful for
your presence in our lives.
So Lord, we just pray
this in your heaven name.
Amen.